Zcash 1.0 "Sprout" Guide
========================

Translations available `here <https://github.com/zcash/zcash-docs>`__.

Welcome! This guide is intended to get you running on the official Zcash
network. Zcash currently has some limitations: it only officially
supports Linux, requires 64-bit, and in some situations requires heavy
memory and CPU consumption to create transactions.

Please let us know if you run into snags. We plan to make it less
memory/CPU intensive and support more architectures and operating
systems in the future.

Upgrading?
----------

If you're on a Debian-based distribution, you can follow the `Debian
instructions <https://github.com/zcash/zcash/wiki/Debian-binary-packages>`__
to install zcash on your system. Otherwise, you can update your local
snapshot of our code:

::

    git fetch origin
    git checkout v1.0.15
    ./zcutil/fetch-params.sh
    ./zcutil/build.sh -j$(nproc)

Note: if you don't have ``nproc``, then substitute the number of cores
on your system. If the build runs out of memory, try again without the
``-j`` argument, i.e. just ``./zcutil/build.sh``.

If you are upgrading from testnet, make sure that your ``~/.zcash``
directory contains only ``zcash.conf`` to start with, and that your
``~/.zcash/zcash.conf`` does not contain ``testnet=1`` or
``addnode=testnet.z.cash``.

If the build fails, move aside your ``zcash`` directory and try again by
following the instructions in the `Compile it
yourself <#or-compile-it-yourself>`__ section below.

A quick note about terminology
------------------------------

Zcash supports two different kinds of addresses, a *z-addr* (which
begins with a **z**) is an address that uses zero-knowledge proofs and
other cryptography to protect user privacy. There are also *t-addrs*
(which begin with a **t**) that are similar to Bitcoin's addresses.

Requirements
------------

Currently, you will need:

-  Linux (easiest with a Debian-based distribution)
-  64-bit processor and OS
-  3 GB of free RAM
-  at least 10 GB of free disk space (the size of the block chain
   increases over time)

The interfaces are a commandline client (``zcash-cli``) and a Remote
Procedure Call (RPC) interface, which is documented here:

https://github.com/zcash/zcash/blob/v1.0.15/doc/payment-api.md

Security
--------

Before installing, upgrading, or running zcash, ensure you have checked
for any security issues. Please See our Security page:

https://z.cash/support/security.html

Get started
-----------

Binary packages for Debian-based operating systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Follow the instructions here:
https://github.com/zcash/zcash/wiki/Debian-binary-packages

Or, Compile it yourself
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

On Ubuntu/Debian-based systems:

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install \
          build-essential pkg-config libc6-dev m4 g++-multilib \
          autoconf libtool ncurses-dev unzip git python python-zmq \
          zlib1g-dev wget curl bsdmainutils automake

On Fedora-based systems:

.. code:: bash

    $ sudo dnf install \
          git pkgconfig automake autoconf ncurses-devel python \
          python-zmq wget curl gtest-devel gcc gcc-c++ libtool patch

On RHEL-based systems (including Scientific Linux):

-  Install devtoolset-3 and autotools-latest (if not previously
   installed).
-  Run ``scl enable devtoolset-3 'scl enable autotools-latest bash'``
   and do the remainder of the build in the shell that this starts.

Check GCC version
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

gcc/g++ 4.9 *or later* is required. Zcash has been successfully built
using gcc/g++ versions 4.9 to 7.x inclusive. Use ``g++ --version`` to
check which version you have.

On Ubuntu Trusty, if your version is too old then you can install
gcc/g++ 4.9 as follows:

::

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install g++-4.9

Check binutils version
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

binutils 2.22 *or later* is required. Use ``as --version`` to check
which version you have, and upgrade if necessary.

Fetch the software and parameter files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fetch our repository with git and run ``fetch-params.sh`` like so:

.. code:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/zcash/zcash.git
    $ cd zcash/
    $ git checkout v1.0.15
    $ ./zcutil/fetch-params.sh

This will fetch our Sprout proving and verifying keys (the final ones
created in the `Parameter Generation
Ceremony <https://github.com/zcash/mpc>`__), and place them into
``~/.zcash-params/``. These keys are just under 911MB in size, so it may
take some time to download them.

The message printed by ``git checkout`` about a "detached head" is
normal and does not indicate a problem.

Build
^^^^^

Ensure you have successfully installed all system package dependencies
as described above. Then run the build, e.g.:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./zcutil/build.sh -j$(nproc)

This should compile our dependencies and build ``zcashd``. (Note: if you
don't have ``nproc``, then substitute the number of cores on your
system. If the build runs out of memory, try again without the ``-j``
argument, i.e. just ``./zcutil/build.sh``. )

Testing
^^^^^^^

The tests take a while to run and may require up to 8GB of RAM. If you
would rather get started right away, you can skip to the next section.
If you want to run the tests to make sure Zcash is working, run:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./qa/zcash/full_test_suite.sh

You can also run the RPC tests, which take much longer:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./qa/pull-tester/rpc-tests.sh

The tests need a lot of memory to run successfully. An out-of-memory
error will usually cause a FAIL or ERROR outcome with "std::bad\_alloc"
somewhere in the output.

Configuration
-------------

Following the steps below will create your zcashd configuration file
which can be edited to either connect to ``mainnet`` or ``testnet`` as
well as applying settings to safely access the RPC interface (see the
link below).

Configuring for Mainnet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create the ``~/.zcash`` directory and place a configuration file at
``~/.zcash/zcash.conf`` using the following commands:

.. code:: bash

    mkdir -p ~/.zcash
    echo "addnode=mainnet.z.cash" >~/.zcash/zcash.conf

Note that this will overwrite any ``zcash.conf`` settings you may have
added from testnet. (If you want to run on testnet, you can retain a
``zcash.conf`` from testnet.)

Configuring for Testnet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After running the above commands to create the ``zcash.conf`` file, edit
the following parameters in your ``zcash.conf`` file to indicate network
and node discovery for ``testnet``: \* add the line ``testnet=1`` \*
``addnode=testnet.z.cash`` instead of ``addnode=mainnet.z.cash``

Enabling CPU mining:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to enable CPU mining, run these commands:

.. code:: bash

    $ echo 'gen=1' >> ~/.zcash/zcash.conf
    $ echo "genproclimit=-1" >> ~/.zcash/zcash.conf

Setting ``genproclimit=-1`` mines on the maximum number of threads
possible on your CPU. If you want to mine with a lower number of
threads, set ``genproclimit`` equal to the number of threads you would
like to mine on.

The default miner is not efficient, but has been well reviewed. To use a
much more efficient but unreviewed solver, you can run this command:

.. code:: bash

    $ echo 'equihashsolver=tromp' >> ~/.zcash/zcash.conf

Note, you probably want to read the [[Mining-Guide]] to learn more
mining details.

Running Zcash:
--------------

Now, run zcashd!

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcashd

To run it in the background (without the node metrics screen that is
normally displayed) use ``./src/zcashd --daemon``.

You should be able to use the RPC after it finishes loading. Here's a
quick way to test:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli getinfo

**NOTE**: If you are familiar with bitcoind's RPC interface, you can use
many of those calls to send ZEC between ``t-addr`` addresses. We do not
support the 'Accounts' feature (which has also been deprecated in
``bitcoind``) — only the empty string ``""`` can be used as an account
name.

**NOTE**: The main network node at mainnet.z.cash is also accessible via
Tor hidden service at zcmaintvsivr7pcn.onion.

To see the peers you are connected to:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli getpeerinfo

Using Zcash
-----------

First, you want to obtain Zcash. You can purchase them from an exchange,
from other users, or sell goods and services for them! Exactly how to
obtain Zcash (safely) is not in scope for this document, but you should
be careful. Avoid scams!

Generating a t-addr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's generate a t-addr first.

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli getnewaddress
    t14oHp2v54vfmdgQ3v3SNuQga8JKHTNi2a1

Listing transparent addresses
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli getaddressesbyaccount ""

This should show the address that was just created.

Receiving Zcash with a z-addr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now let's generate a z-addr.

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli z_getnewaddress
    zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG

This creates a private address and stores its key in your local wallet
file. Give this address to the sender!

A z-addr is pretty large, so it's easy to make mistakes with them. Let's
put it in an environment variable to avoid mistakes:

.. code:: bash

    $ ZADDR='zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG'

To get a list of all addresses in your wallet for which you have a
spending key, run this command:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli z_listaddresses

You should see something like:

.. code:: json

    [
        "zcA6qngiR3U7HxYopyTWkaDLwYBd83D5MT7Jb9gpgTzPLMZytzRbtdPP1Syv4RvRgHeoZrJWSask3DyfwXG9DGPMWMvX7aC",
        "zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG"
    ]

Great! Now, send your z-addr to the sender. You should eventually see
their transaction when checking:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli z_listreceivedbyaddress "$ZADDR"

.. code:: json

    [
        {
            "txid" : "af1665b317abe538148114a45322f28151925501c081949cc7a5207ef21cb750",
            "amount" : 1.23,
            "memo" : "48656c6c6f20ceb2210000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
        }
    ]

Sending coins with your z-addr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If someone gives you their z-addr...

.. code:: bash

    $ FRIEND='zcCDe8krwEt1ozWmGZhBDWrcUfmK3Ue5D5z1f6u2EZLLCjQq7mBRkaAPb45FUH4Tca91rF4R1vf983ukR71kHyXeED4quGV'

You can send 0.8 ZEC by doing...

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli z_sendmany "$ZADDR" "[{\"amount\": 0.8, \"address\": \"$FRIEND\"}]"

After waiting about a minute, you can check to see if the operation has
finished and produced a result:

.. code:: bash

    $ ./src/zcash-cli z_getoperationresult

.. code:: json

    [
        {
            "id" : "opid-4eafcaf3-b028-40e0-9c29-137da5612f63",
            "status" : "success",
            "creation_time" : 1473439760,
            "result" : {
                "txid" : "3b85cab48629713cc0caae99a49557d7b906c52a4ade97b944f57b81d9b0852d"
            },
            "execution_secs" : 51.64785629
        }
    ]

Additional operations for zcash-cli
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As Zcash is an extension of bitcoin, zcash-cli supports all commands
that are part of the Bitcoin Core API (as of version 0.11.2),
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Original\_Bitcoin\_client/API\_calls\_list

For a full list of new commands that are not part of bitcoin API (mostly
addressing operations on z-addrs) see
https://github.com/zcash/zcash/blob/master/doc/payment-api.md

To list all zcash commands, use ``./src/zcash-cli help``.

To get help with a particular command, use
``./src/zcash-cli help <command>``.

Known Security Issues
---------------------

Each release contains a ``./doc/security-warnings.md`` document
describing security issues known to affect that release. You can find
the most recent version of this document here:

https://github.com/zcash/zcash/blob/master/doc/security-warnings.md

Please also see our security page for recent notifications and other
resources:

https://z.cash/support/security.html
