About
=====

A wiki for everything related to Zcash design and implementation.

This repository is a fork of `Bitcoin Core`_ which contains protocol
changes to support the `Zerocash protocol`_. This implements the Zcash
cryptocurrency, which maintains a separate ledger from the Bitcoin
network, for several reasons, the most immediate of which is that the
consensus protocol is different.

Getting Started
---------------

A good place to start is the [[1.0 User Guide]] or our `FAQ`_

.. _`FAQ`: https://z.cash/support/faq.html

Getting Involved
----------------

Chat
~~~~

Zcash development is an open collaborative process. If you'd like to
contribute, join our `chat system <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/>`_
and check out some of these channels:

- `#zcash <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/zcash>`_ - general user chat.
- `#zcash-dev <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/zcash-dev>`_ - software and protocol development.
- `#community-collaboration <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/community-collaboration>`_ - other open source development related to zcash.
- `#the-zcash-foundation <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/the-zcash-foundation>`_ - a room to define and develop the `Zcash Foundation <https://z.cash.foundation>`_, an organization to steward the community, protocol, and science around Zcash.
- `#zcash-apprentices <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/zcash-apprentices>`_ - a study and peer-education room.
- `#zcash-wizards <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/zcash-wizards>`_ - mad scientist brainstorming.

Working Groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Zcash development is transitioning into a working group model, which
you can read about on the [[working groups]] page. Join or create new
working groups.

Understanding the Design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our [[specification]] is a work in progress.

Developer Guidelines
--------------------

Developer information lives on the [[Zcash-development]] page.


.. _`Bitcoin Core`: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin
.. _`Zerocash protocol`: https://zerocash-project.org
