======================
 Zcash Working Groups
======================

Zcash development, operations, collaborations, and related events are accomplished by
working groups.

**STATUS:** alpha - we're trying out this new structure during April 2017,
then we'll review how it's working out in May.

Discussion about this is happening in
`#zcash-dev <https://chat.zcashcommunity.com/channel/zcash-dev>`_.

Note: This page refers to people by their `chat.zcashcommunity.com` handles.

.. contents::

Working Groups
==============

Meta
----

This "meta-working-group" organizes other working groups. For now this function is handled by @nathan
representing the ZECC company. ZECC has two explicit goals:

1. Keep Zcash protocol development and software development on track, making progress
   and adapting to the market.
2. Transition development and governance of Zcash protocol and software to an open
   structure affiliated with the Zcash Foundation.

There may be contention between these goals. In that case, the most important priority
for this team is to publicly highlight that contention.

**Coordinators:** @nathan, @zooko

**Members:** …


Protocol
--------

Design and deploy the Sapling protocol upgrade.

**Coordinators:** @sean, @ariel, @daira

**Members:** @nathan, @str4d


Release
-------

The release team defines and executes the release process of the `zcashd`
software, selects pull requests for inclusion in the `zcashd` software,
ensures that the release *quality* and *schedule* are consistent, and
packages software.

**Coordinators:** @nathan, @daira

**Members:** ???

Development Infrastructure
--------------------------

The DevInfra working group manages development infrastructure including continunuous integration, performance measurement, and packaging systems.

**Coordinators:** @kevin

**Members:** @nathan

Network Infrastructure
----------------------

The NetInfra working group manages development and operation of infrastructure for the Zcash blockchain, including monitoring systems, community faucets and explorers, bootstrap nodes, Tor nodes, and so on.

**Coordinators:** @kevin

**Members:** …

Berkeley DB Replacement
-----------------------

The Berkeley DB Replacement working group manages the migration of the wallet database format from BerkeleyDB
to SQLite.  The goal is improve reliability. The transition should be as seamless as possible for users.

**Coordinators:** @daira @bitcartel

**Members:**

Proposed Working Groups
=======================

Ping @nathan if you'd like to make any of these happen or propose new ones:

- Roadmap
- API
- Packaging and Porting
- Documentation & User Support
- Development Infrastructure
- Network Infrastructure
- Community Engagement
- Berkeley DB Replacement


Background
==========

ZECC and Open Development
-------------------------

ZECC (the Zerocoin Electric Coin Company, often called "ZcashCo" or "the Zcash Company")
is the current locus of Zcash development. ZECC has an explicit goal to transition
Zcash protocol and software development into an open collaboration.

That process is ongoing. In the short term ZECC controls development in a
top-down hierarchical manner, whereas in the future development will be an open
collaboration. This team organization is a vehicle to aide that transition.

Generic Roles
-------------

Each working group has `coordinators` and other `members`.

The `coordinators` are defined in a well-known unambiguous ordering,
so that at any point in time there's a single well-known `lead
coordinator`. Whenever the `lead coordinator` is unavailable, the next
in the list assumes that role, and so on.

A `member` is anyone who volunteers to contribute to that teams function. This is the
list of people to make requests to, for example, or to invite to meetings related to
that team function.

Selecting Roles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Presently these roles are established in an informal, centralized process. Teams are
organized by the Org Team. Please feel free to ask the Org Team coordinator to join
any particular team.

Anywhere there are '???' we need volunteers!

